12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	1/65
SUBMIT
⭐ IMPROVING FACTUAL
ACCURACY IN SEARCH AND ITS
SEO APPLICATIONS
The Concept of Topical Authority and the strategy around it that involves
microsemantics, and macrosemantics come from the Topical Authority Course of
Koray Tugberk GUBUR, owner and founder of Holistic SEO, and we are proud of
giving credit to the original source and thought leader.
Improving the Factual accuracy of answers to different search queries is one of the
top priorities of any search engines. The internet is full of information. Search
engines like Google train large language models like BERT, RoBERTa, GPT-3, T5
and REALM to create large natural language corpuses (datasets) that are derived
from the web. Finetuning these natural language model, search engines are able
perform a number of natural language tasks.
M I C R O S E M A N T I C S I N - D E P T H S E O	M I C R O S E M A N T I C S I N - D E P T H S E O
G U I D E A N D A N A LY S I S S T E P S	G U I D E A N D A N A LY S I S S T E P S
Name 	Email Address 	Website URL
SERVICES  WHY AI ? OUR COMPANY 
BLOGS CONTACT PRICING 
Privacidade - Termos

-- 1 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	2/65
⭐ THE PROBLEM OF BIAS IN
SEARCH
In earlier days the challenge of Google was to accurately understand the user intent
behind queries. There was the days when Google couldnot really help you in
planning a trip to mount fiji or give you detailed suggestions for an itinerary.
However nowadays when you type to create a itinerary for travel to mount fiji,
Google can accurately understand your search intent and suggest you webpages
and answers related questions that can help you plan your trip.
It can also help you book your hotels or flights directly:

-- 2 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	3/65
With the advent of Hummingbird, Rankbrain and large language models like BERT
and LAMBDA, Google over the years have evolved enough to accurately
understand and deliver results as per the user intent.
However as the Internet gets crowded with content , one of the most recent
challenges is to not only to deliver the most relevant information but also
factually correct information.
Here’s an example of Factual Inaccuracy:
In the Azerbaijan Grand Prix, you’ll notice a problem with the rich results. The
McLaren Renault cars, in positions seven and nine, aren’t called McLaren Honda as
Google shows.

-- 3 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	4/65
As per the official website of McLaren and Wikipedia, Mclaren uses Renault Engines
and not Honda engines!
Also a search for “prime minister of Armenia leaves out the fact that Serzh Sargsyan
was prime minister from 2007 to 2008 in the carousel:

-- 4 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	5/65
Factual Innaccuracies are unacceptable as they cause Bias and for a search engine
it is of primary importance to serve factually correct information from the Internet
without user created biases.
⭐ SOURCE OF FACTUAL
INFORMATION | KNOWLEDGE
GRAPHS
In order to give more leverage to factually accurate content , Google introduced the
concept of KGs or Knowledge Graph.
The Knowledge Graph is an intelligent model that taps into Google’s vast repository
of entity and fact-based information and seeks to understand the real-world
connections between them.
Instead of interpreting every keyword and query literally, Google infers what people
are looking for.
The goal of the Knowledge Graph – as Google explains nicely in their (still relevant)
introductory video – is to transition “from being an information engine [to] a
knowledge engine.”
Google displays what it deems to be the most relevant information in a panel (called
a Knowledge panel) to the right of the search results, based on the Knowledge
Graph’s understanding of semantic search and the relationship between items.
In its early days, these results were static, but today you can book movie tickets,
watch YouTube videos, and listen to songs on Spotify through these panels.

-- 5 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	6/65
⭐ ARE KNOWLEDGE GRAPHS AND
RICH RESULTS THE SAME?
With knowledge graphs one may ask a question as to are knowledge graph the
same as to other search features like featured snippet.
Although knowledge graph and featured snippets seems use the same styling and
images patterns, the main difference are as follows:
Featured Snippet
The Featured snippet is
just one aspect of a
search feature which
has a singular purpose
of delivering the most
relevant answer to a
query.
Knowledge Graphs
The knowledge graph is an
underlying algorithm that helps
Google keep the most relevant and
factual information in the form of
entities. These information is used
to deliver various kinds of search
engines results including featured
snippets.
Featured Snippet
cannot be requested
to change or update.
2. You can suggest changes to the
Knowledge Graph, especially where
it concerns your brand identity and
information.
⭐ HOW TO REDUCE BIAS IN
SEARCH RESULTS | INTRODUCTION
OF KELM ALGORITHM
KELM is an acronym for Knowledge-Enhanced Language Model Pre-training.
KELM is an acronym for Knowledge-Enhanced Language Model Pre-training.
Natural language processing models like BERT are typically trained on web and
other documents. KELM proposes adding trustworthy factual content (knowledge-
enhanced) to the language model pre-training in order to improve the factual
accuracy and reduce bias.

-- 6 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	7/65
⭐BACKGROUND TO KELM
Natural Language Text, are often include biases and factually inaccurate
information. However alternative data sources like Knowledge Graphs contain
structured data. KGs are factual in nature because the information is usually
extracted from more trusted sources, and post-processing filters and human editors
ensure inappropriate and incorrect content are removed.
Therefore any natural language model that can incorporate these have the
advantage of factual accuracy and reduced biases. However the structured nature of
these data make them difficult to be incorporated in natural language models.
In KELM Pre Training of a Language Model, Google tried a conversion method of
KG data to natural language in order to create a synthetic corpus.
Then they utilize REALM which is a retrieval based language model on the synthetic
corpus as method of integration both natural language corpus and KGs in pre-
training.
⭐ CONVERTING KGS TO NATURAL
LANGUAGE TEXT
Let us understand this with a simple example.
KGs consist of factual information represented explicitly in a structured format,
generally in the form of [subject entity, relation, object entity] triples, e.g., [10×10
photobooks, inception, 2012]. A group of related triples is called an entity subgraph.
An example of an entity subgraph that builds on the previous example of a triple is {
[10×10 photobooks, instance of, Nonprofit Organization], [10×10 photobooks,
inception, 2012] }, which is illustrated in the figure below. A KG can be viewed as
interconnected entity subgraphs.

-- 7 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	8/65
Source: Google AI Blog
Converting an entity subgraph into natural language is a standard data to text
processing task. However converting an entire KG into a meaningful text has
additional challenges.
Also real world KGs are more granular and vast than benchmark KGs. Also with
benchmark datasets, they have subgraphs predefined that can form meaningful
sentences. With an entire KG, such a segmentation into entity subgraphs needs to
be created as well.
In order to convert the Wikidata KG into synthetic natural sentences, we developed
a verbalization pipeline named “Text from KG Generator” (TEKGEN), which is made
up of the following components: a large training corpus of heuristically aligned
Wikipedia text and Wikidata KG triples, a text-to-text generator (T5) to convert the
KG triples to text, an entity subgraph creator for generating groups of triples to be
verbalized together, and finally, a post-processing filter to remove low quality
outputs.
The result is a corpus containing the entire Wikidata KG as natural text, which
Google call the Knowledge-Enhanced Language Model (KELM) corpus. It consists
of ~18M sentences spanning ~45M triples and ~1500 relations.

-- 8 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	9/65
⭐ HOW KELM WORKS TO REDUCE
BIAS AND IMPROVE FACTUAL
ACCURACY
KG Verbalization is an efficient method of integrating KG with natural language
models.
In order to assess the impact of search result accuracy, Google researchers tried to
augment the REALM corpus which contains Wikipedia text with the KELM corpus
(verbalized triplets).
They measure the accuracy with each data augmentation technique on two popular
open-domain question answering datasets: Natural Questions and Web Questions.
Augmenting REALM with concatenated triples alone accounts for improved
accuracy. However the use of verbalized triplets accounts for a smooth integration of
KG data as well which is confirmed by the improvement in accuracy.

-- 9 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	10/65
⭐ IMPACT OF KELM IN REDUCING
BIAS AND IMPROVE SEARCH
ACCURACY
Google conducts extensive research, some of which appears to be exploratory but
otherwise appears to be fruitless. The conclusion of research that is most likely not
going to be incorporated into Google’s algorithm typically states that additional
research is necessary because the technology in question doesn’t meet
expectations in any particular way.
With the KELM and TEKGEN studies, however, such is not the case. In actuality, the
essay is upbeat about the discovery’ potential for practical implementation. This
seems to increase the likelihood that KELM will eventually appear in search in some
capacity.
Extract from Google AI Blog on KELM
⭐ WHAT DOES IT MEAN FOR
SEOS?
Wether Google Introduces into Search or develops on a more advanced corpus ,
one thing is quite clear, that Knowledge Graphs are the most important and vital
source of factual information, and hence all brands and SEO must target to achieve
it.
⭐ HOW TO ACHIEVE A

-- 10 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	11/65
KNOWLEGDE PANEL?
There are no direct ways of obtaining a knowledge panel. However, several
resources on Google’s docs and our understanding of the Knowledge Graph
generation process helps us to identify certain steps vital for achieving a Knowledge
Panel.
Leverage Schema on Home Page
Visitors cannot see schema markup, but it is essential for the Knowledge Graph to
understand your company’s information.
Include any and all pertinent information, including company, individual, and nearby
business. Utilise markup as much as you can because the Knowledge Graph may
gather up any data using Schema.org elements.
De ne Entities in Schema Markup
Your website brand is itself an Entity. Similarly different service pages and products
on your website may describe different entities some of which may be unique to your
brand. Indexing these entities into Google is crucial for strengthening your
knowledge Graph.
It is possible to define the Entity of a Page using Schema. Read more about Main
Entity of Page Schema.
Get Listed at WikiData.org and Wikipedia
For official website addresses, Google frequently uses Wikipedia (unless you
provide them yourself).
Therefore, it should go without saying that if your company doesn’t already have a
Wikipedia page, you should either make one yourself or pay a reputable Wikipedia
editor to do it for you.
Make sure to add an entry about your company to Wikidata and link to it from your
Wikipedia article because Google also uses Wikidata for some of its information.
OTHER SUGGESTIONS

-- 11 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	12/65
Local Business Listings like Google My Business and Bing Places.
Get Listed in Popular Business Directories
Verify Social Media Accounts.
⭐ UNLOCKING TOPICAL
AUTHORITY: BUILDING A TOPICAL
MAP FOR SEMANTIC SEO FOR
UNBEATABLE ORGANIC GROWTH
Topical Authority and Semantic SEO are no doubt some of the most groundbreaking
advancements in search that have revolutionized how SEO works. Now outranking
your competitor is not that tough when you actually know how search engines’s work
and can master the art of building topical authority.
We have been applying the methodologies of Topical Authority and Semantic SEO
for our client’s and our own website and we have seen significant improvements in
the traffic and project stats.
In this article we will covering the basics and provide actionable steps on how an
average SEO can understand the concepts of topical authority and take advantage
of it by building a topical Map.
But before that let’s show some results.
5 months GSC Data of GetWordly.com

-- 12 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	13/65
Last 6 Months GSC Data for a9-play.com
Last 12 Months Growth Data for upperkey.com
⭐ BRIEF INTRODUCTION TO
SEMANTIC WEB, SEMANTIC
SEARCH AND TOPICAL AUTHORITY
The way information is currently organised on the web is known as the semantic
web. Taxonomy and ontology are two fundamental components of the semantic web
that derive from the universe and the nature of the human brain, respectively.
The words “taxonomy” and “nomia,” which together mean “arrangement of things,”
are derived from the Greek words taxis and nomo, respectively. Ontology, which
means “essence of things,” is derived from the words “ont” and “logy.” Both are
methods for defining entities by grouping and categorising them. The semantic web
is comprised of taxonomy and ontology.
Google has developed several projects that are geared towards a semantic web
over the last ten years.

-- 13 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	14/65
Google introduced the “Structured Search Engine” in 2011 to organise the
information on the internet.
[YouTube Embed Code
<iframe width=”560″ height=”315″
src=”https://www.youtube.com/embed/5lCSDOuqv1A” title=”The Structured Search
Engine” frameborder=”0″ allow=”accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write;
encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share” allowfullscreen>
</iframe>
]
Additionally, they introduced Knowledge Graph in May 2012 to aid in the
understanding of data pertaining to actual entities.
In order to understand the relationships between words, concepts, and entities in
human language and perception better, they introduced BERT in 2019.
The semantic web, semantic search, Google as a semantic search engine, and
consequently semantic SEO were all produced by these processes.
⭐ WHAT IS TOPICAL COVERAGE?
HOW IT IS CORRELATED TO
TOPICAL AUTHORITY?
Every source of information has a different level of coverage for various topics in a
semantic and organised web. Through their shared characteristics, things or entities
are related to one another. The “Ontology” that these attributes represent. Within a
classification hierarchy, things are also connected to one another. The “Taxonomy” is
represented by this hierarchy. A source needs to cover a topic’s various attributes in
a variety of contexts in order to be considered an authority for that topic by a
semantic search engine. Additionally, it must make use of analogous items as well
as parent and child category references.
The key to these SEO case studies is building a content network for every “sub-
topic,” or hypothetical question, within contextual relevance and hierarchy with
logical internal links and anchor texts.

-- 14 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	15/65
The most comprehensive content network that is entity-oriented, semantically
organised, and can acquire Topical Authority and Topical Coverage. Every piece of
content that is successful increases the likelihood that other content will also be
successful for the connected entities and related queries.
⭐ STEPS TO BUILD TOPICAL
AUTHORITY AND LEVERAGE
SEMANTIC SEO
Understanding why a search engine needs the web to be semantic is necessary to
fully grasp the semantic SEO concept. This need has grown even more, particularly
with the prevalence of machine learning-based search engine ranking systems
rather than rule-based search engine ranking systems and the use of natural
language processing & understanding technologies. To comprehend the suggestions
below, approach these ideas from the perspective of a search engine.
 . Create a Topical Map before Starting to Write an Article
You should check Google’s Knowledge Graph because there may be different
connections between things for Google than there are according to dictionaries or
encyclopaedias. Google’s entity recognition and contextual vector calculations use
the web and data supplied by engineers.
In order to determine which entity has been related to which and how for which
queries, you should also check SERP.
You can check a niche and query group quickly in preparation for creating a topical
map.
Examine the sitemaps of your competitors to learn about their
topical maps.
Obtain relevant topics and queries from Google Trends.
Gather information from search suggestions and autocomplete.
Take note of how the content hubs of your rivals are connected.
Google Knowledge Graph can be used to retrieve permanent
entities.

-- 15 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	16/65
To view entity properties, hierarchies, and connections, use non-web
resources.
The final point is crucial if you want to develop into a source that contributes reliable,
original information to a search engine’s knowledge base.
Example of a Topical Map from Inlinks.net
 . Determining Link Count Per Page
All of these SEO case studies and accomplishments had a maximum of 15 links on
each webpage.
The majority of these links had natural anchor texts that were pertinent to the main
content. I skipped the header and footer menus. This runs counter to conventional
technical SEO advice. I had to come to terms with that, and I’m not advocating using
no more than 15 links per web page. I’m advising you to keep the pertinent and
contextual links within the text’s main body and work to draw search engines’
attention to them.

-- 16 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	17/65
Use the following checklist to estimate the number of links to be used on the
Website:
To understand the minimum and maximum values, consider the
industry standards for internal link count.
The quantity of named entities in the text
The number of named entity contexts
The content’s degree of “granularity”
There can only be one link per heading section.
if the entities are in “list format,” linking them to the relevant pages
for entities of the same type.
 . Implement Anchor Texts in a Natural And Relevant Way.
Determine Count, Position and Words
It is already well known that anchor text are very useful in determining link relevancy
and also determine the Page Rank Passage. However one should not use the same
anchor text more than three times in a document. The fourth time, it should have a
different wording. Some other rules are:
Never use the  rst paragraph of a page’s text as the anchor text for
links to that page.
Never link to a page using the  rst word of any paragraph on the
page.
Always use one of the last heading’s paragraphs when linking one
article to another from a different context or tangential subject
(Google refers to this kind of connection as “Supplementary
Content”).
Always look at the internal and external anchor texts of competitors
for a speci c article.
When writing anchor texts, make an effort to always use synonyms
for the topic.
Always verify whether the “anchor text” is present in the content of
the targeted web page and any associated heading text from the
link source.
 . Determine Your Contextual Vectors

-- 17 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	18/65
Again, the terminology might be a little “scratchy” for your ears. For me, this is a
term from Google Patents. Contextual domains, contextual phrases, and contextual
vectors… Google Patents offer a wealth of information to explore (thanks again to
our educator, Bill Slawski).
Contextual vectors are the signals used to determine the angle of content, to put it
simply. A context can be “comparing earthquakes,” “guessing earthquakes,” or
“chronology of earthquake,” with “earthquake” as the topic.
For instance, Healthline has more than 265 articles devoted solely to the topic of
“apple” (a type of fruit). The advantages of apples, their nutritional value, varieties,
and apple trees (basically a different thing entirely, but it is close enough.)
All of these websites were, therefore, related to the field of teaching second
languages. The primary subject is “English Learning”; examples of different contexts
include learning English through games, videos, movies, songs, and friends.
Contextual Vectors Diagram. A schema from Google’s User-context-based Search
Engine Patent. “A vocabulary list is created with a macro-context (context vector) for
each, dependent upon the number of occurrences of unique terms from a domain”

-- 18 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	19/65
We always try to use a variety of pillar cluster contents to bridge the gaps between
various topics and the entities contained within them in order to establish more
contextual connections. You should also read Google’s patents to learn more about
their contextual vectors and knowledge domains.
 . Does Content Length Matter For Ranking?
Content Length is not a ranking factor. Actually, for many factors like crawl budget,
PageRank distribution, backlink dilution, or cannibalization issues, telling more
things with less content in more thorough and authoritative articles is preferable.
But in order to plan the process, content count is crucial. You must determine how
many writers you will need and how many articles you will publish each day or each
week. In this executive summary, I left out a lot of SEO terminology like content
publication and content update frequency. You still do not know how much content
you will need, even after choosing the topics, contents, contexts, and entities.
Google occasionally favours websites that display multiple contexts for a topic on
the same page, but in other cases Google prefers to see different contexts on
different pages.
Average Heading Count per heading level on the web pages
To know the exact count for the content/article, examining the Google SERP types,
competitors’ content network’s shape is important. This is also important for the
budget of the project. If you tell your customer that you just need 120 pieces of
content but later, you realize that you actually need 180 pieces of content, it is a
serious problem for trust.
 . Determine Topical Hiearchy and URL Categories
In none of the SEO case studies presented here, URL categories were used. This
does not imply, however, that URL categories and associated breadcrumbs are not
advantageous for semantic SEO. It is simpler for a search engine to understand a

-- 19 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	20/65
website when similar content is kept in the same folder in the URL path. Additionally,
it offers user advice and makes site navigation easier.
Oncrawl’s Inrank Flow Distribution for different URL Categories. One can easily see
the most important part of OneCrawl Website is the Blog. This is true for most SAAS
Websites.
 . Creating a Topical Hiearchy and Adjusting with URL Categories
The use of subtopics by Google in January 2020 has been confirmed, but the term
“Neural Nets” or “Neural Networks” has actually been used by Google before. There
was also a nice summary of how topics are connected to one another within a
hierarchy and logic on the Google Developers YouTube channel. Taxonomy and
ontology are essential for semantic SEO because of this once more.
The phrase “creating a Topical Hierarchy with Contextual Vectors” however, what
does that mean? It implies that each topic should have been processed in all
relevant contexts and groups with logical URL structures.
A more granular and detailed information architecture will result in the search engine
giving a source greater topical authority and expertise.
 . Adjust your Heading Tags (Heading Vectors)
As a signal for identifying the primary angle and topic of the content, heading vectors
are actually just the order of the headings. The “Main Content,” “Ads,” and
“Supplementary Content” sections of content are seen as having different functions
in accordance with the Google Quality Rater Guidelines.

-- 20 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	21/65
We all know that Google gives more weight to the content in the “upper section” or
area of the article that is visible above the fold. The queries in the upper section of
the content always have a higher rank than the queries in the lower section for this
reason. In reality, Google considers the bottom section to be “supplementary
content.”
A representation of Google’s methodology for Contextual Answer Passage Score
Calculating via Heading Vectors.
Use of contextual relevance and logic within the heading hierarchy is crucial for this
reason. Simply put, from the standpoint of semantic SEO, the following are some
fundamental guidelines for heading vectors:
Use semantic HTML tags, including heading tags, regardless of what
the search engine says.
The title tag serves as the starting point for heading vectors, so they
should be consistent.

-- 21 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	22/65
Any paragraph that follows those headings shouldn’t reiterate the
information that was previously provided because each heading
should concentrate on a different piece of information.
Group headings that concentrate on related concepts together.
Any heading that calls for the inclusion of another object should
have a link to that object.
The content of each heading should be properly formatted with lists,
tables, and descriptive de nitions.
As you can see, this section as a whole follows some simple logic. nothing brand-
new. However, allow me to present one of Google’s patents below, titled “Context
scoring adjustments for answer passages.”
Source: Context scoring adjustments for answer passages

-- 22 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	23/65
Google tries to determine which passage has the best contextual vector for a given
query by using the heading vector. Therefore, I advise you to establish a distinct
logical structure between these headings.
 . Connecting Related Entities for a Topic Within a Context
Entity associations and connecting entities are similar concepts. Search engines can
associate entities based on the attributes of the entities and also based on how
queries are written for a potential search intent.
An ontology’s practical application is the linking and grouping of entities within a
context. For instance, in the context of these SEO projects’ industry, “English
Learning,” you can also use “Irregular Verbs,” “Most-used Verbs,” “Useful Verbs for
Lawyers,” “Etymology of Verbs of Latin Origin,” and “Less Known Verbs” that can be
connected to one another for the topic of “Phrasal Verbs.”
All those contexts actually focus on “verbs in English”. They are all related to
“Grammar Rules”, “Sentence Examples”, “Pronunciation” and “Different Tenses”.
You can detail, structure, categorize and connect all these contexts and entities to
each other.
After you basically cover every possible context for a topic and all related entities, a
semantic search engine doesn’t have any other chance besides choosing you as a
reliable source for possible search intents for these.
  . Cover All Possible Search Intents using Question and Answers
In essence, a search engine creates questions from web content and uses query
rewriting to match these questions with queries. And it employs these queries to fill
in any potential content gaps for conceivable web search intentions.
That is why I advise you to consider each entity in each context while linking them
together. You should be aware of information extraction, though. Information
extraction involves sifting through a document for the key details and unmistakable
connections between ideas. A search engine can determine which questions can be
answered from a document or which facts can be understood thanks to information
extraction. Information extraction can even be used to create a knowledge graph
between entities and their attributes, and used for generating related questions.

-- 23 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	24/65
Generating Related Questions for Search Queries
Don’t just concentrate on the SEARCH VOLUME! It’s possible that this question has
never been posed before. Even the search engine may not have the solution to this
problem. Create and respond to these inquiries, however, and become a distinctive
source of information for the web and search engines in your niche if this particular
information is useful for defining the characteristics of entities within the topic.
  . Focusing on Finding Information Gaps Rather than Keyword
Gaps
Source: Patent “Contextual Estimation Of Link Information Gain”
We are all aware that even as recently as 2020, “Google uses RankBrain to match
these queries with possible search intents and new documents” since “15% of
everyday queries are new.” Additionally, Google is constantly looking for original
data and solutions to conceivable new questions from its users. Try to include less

-- 24 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	25/65
well-known “terms, related information, questions, studies, persons, places, events,
and suggestions” as well as original information.
For these SEO case studies, “longer content” or “keywords” are therefore not the
key. The keys are “more information,” “unique questions,” and “unique connections.”
Each piece of content for these projects has a distinctive heading that may not even
be related to the volume of searches and that even users are not necessarily aware
of.
Below, you will see another Google Patent to show the contextual relevance for
augmented queries and possible related search activities.
“Including every related entity with their contextual connections while explaining their
core” is of Utmost Importance in Semantic SEO.
  . Stop Giving Weightage on Keyword Volume or Dif culty
We weren’t intimidated by reputable competitors with a tonne of
backlinks when the project  rst started.
Third-party metrics like keyword dif culty didn’t interest us.
We were not alarmed by the competitors’ brand power or historical
data.
The phrase “We just used Google Search Console to show my client
the latest situation of projects” was avoided at all costs. We only
entered GSC to review Google’s responses.
If a subtopic is necessary for an article’s semantic structure, it should be written.
Even if there is a “0” search volume, it should still be written. Even if the keyword
difficulty is 100, it needs to be written.
Here, another crucial point needs to be made.
All phrases and every detail in all related topics in a topical map must be included if
you want to be ranked first in the SERP for a “phrase.” In other words, without
thoroughly processing each related topic, it is not possible to use semantic SEO to
see an improvement in rankings in searches related to that topic.

-- 25 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	26/65
Word Count Evaluation by page depth. The older the content gets, the page click
depth increases on this example since we don’t use a standard internal navigation.
But even in the 10th depth, we have stronger content than our competitors. This
encourages Google to look further and deeper.
  . Topical Coverage And Authority With Historical Data
A topical graph displays which topics are interconnected within which connections.
How well you cover this graph is referred to as topical coverage. Historical data is
the length of time you have been studying this particular topical graph at a particular
level.
Topical Coverage * Historical Data = Topical Authority
Because of this, every graph I show you shows “rapid growth” after a predetermined
amount of time. Additionally, because I use natural language processing and
understanding, featured snippets are the main source of this initial wave-shaped
rapid growth in organic traffic.
If you can take featured snippets for a topic, it means that you have started to
become an authoritative source with an easy-to-understand content structure for the
search engine.
FINAL THOUGHTS
We have done my best to keep the writing of this guide for this SEO case study with
four different SEO projects as simple as possible. And I’ve been completely honest
in everything we have said.

-- 26 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	27/65
Thanks to deep learning and machine learning, semantic SEO will soon become a
more popular strategy. And I believe that technical SEO and branding will give more
power to the SEOs who give value to the theoretical side of SEO and who try to
protect their holistic approach.
⭐ LEXICAL SEMANTICS, MICRO
SEMANTICS AND SEMANTIC
SIMILARITY IN SEO AND ITS
IMPACT
WHAT IS LEXICAL SEMANTICS?
Lexical Semantics is branch of linguistics that studies the different relationships
between words. The different types of words relationships include:
meronyms(parts of a whole)
holonyms (wholes that contain parts)
antonyms (opposites)
synonyms (similar meanings)
hypernyms (general categories)
and hyponyms (speci c examples)
⭐ WHAT IS MICRO SEMANTICS?
Micro Semantics is a subfield of Lexical Semantics that studies the meaning of
words in a specific context. For example,
the word “dog” can have different meanings depending on the context in which it is
used. In the sentence “The dog is barking,” the word “dog” refers to a specific
animal. However, in the sentence “I’m a dog person,” the word “dog” refers to a type
of person who loves dogs.

-- 27 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	28/65
Here are some of the key concepts in micro semantics:
Sense: A sense is a specific meaning of a word or phrase. For example, the word
“bank” has multiple senses, such as “a financial institution” and “the sloping ground
alongside a river or lake.”
Reference: Reference is the relationship between a word or phrase and the object
or concept that it refers to. For example, the word “dog” refers to a four-legged
mammal that is often kept as a pet.
Denotation: Denotation is the literal meaning of a word or phrase. For example, the
denotation of the word “dog” is “a four-legged mammal that is often kept as a pet.”
Connotation: Connotation is the emotional or cultural associations that are
associated with a word or phrase. For example, the word “dog” has positive
connotations of loyalty and companionship, while the word “cat” has negative
connotations of independence and aloofness.
⭐ SEMANTIC SIMILARITY
Semantic Similarity is used to determine the macro and micro contexts of a
document or webpage. It refers to how close or relevant two words are to each
other. Semantic search engines, which use natural language processing and
understanding, rely on these relationships and the distance between word meanings
to work effectively.
The Methodology or SEO Applications of these are as below:
Understanding the Distance between Words as Vectors.
Creating the sentence structures for the questions and the answers.
Matching the answers and the questions to sharpen the context.
Using accurate information with different forms and connections.
⭐ WHAT ARE THE DIFFERENT
LEXICAL RELATIONS BETWEEN

-- 28 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	29/65
WORDS
Lexical relations between words involve various types of connections, such as
superiority, inferiority, part-whole, opposition, and sameness in meaning. The
relationship between words can determine their context within a sentence and
impact the Information Retrieval (IR) Score, which measures the relevance of
content to a query. Having a clear and well-structured lexical relation helps increase
the IR Score, indicating better relevance and potential user satisfaction.
IR SCORE DILUTION AND HOW TO AVOID
IT?
IR Score Dilution occurs when a document covers multiple topics, leading to diluted
relevance and lower rankings compared to more focused documents.
To avoid it authors must lexical relations and word proximity should be properly
utilized within the document, with closely related words appearing in close
proximity to each other within paragraphs or sections.
Search engines can check if a document contains the hyponym (a word with a
narrower meaning) of the words in a query and generate query predictions from the
hypernyms (words with broader meanings). They can also examine anchor texts to
determine the hyponym distance between different words.
⭐HOW IS IT SIGNIFICANT FOR SEARCH
ENGINES?

-- 29 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	30/65
Lexical and Microsemantic relations work as semantic annotations for a document.
These outline the main entity and accurately define the context of the document.
These semantic annotations ultimately aid in matching a document to a query and
contribute to a higher IR Score.
Search engines can generate phrase patterns based on the lexical
relationships between words in queries or documents.
These patterns de ne concepts with quali ers, such as placing a
hyponym just after an adjective or combining a hypernym with the
antonym of the same adjective.
Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) often employ these
connections and patterns for next-word predictions.
This enhances a search engine’s con dence in relating a document
to a speci c query or understanding its meaning.
In other words, search engines can use the relationships between words to generate
patterns that can be used to predict the next word in a sequence. This can be used
to improve the accuracy of search results, as the search engine can be more
confident that a document is relevant to a query if it contains words that follow a
similar pattern.
To understand Lexical Relations, the types of lexical semantics between words
should be seen.
Hypernym: The general word of another word. For example, the word color is the
hypernym of red, blue, and yellow.
Hyponym: The specific word of another general word. For example, crimson, violet,
and lavender are hyponyms for purple. And, purple is the hyponym for the color.

-- 30 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	31/65
Antonym: The opposite of another word. For example, the big is the antonym of the
small, and the early is the antonym of the late.
Synonym: The replacement of another word without changing the meaning. For
example, huge is the synonym for big, and initial is the synonym for early.
Holonym: The whole of a part. For example, the table is the holonym of the table
leg.
Meronym: The part of an entire. For example, a feather is the meronym of a bird.
Polysemy: The word with different meanings such as love, as a verb, and as a
noun.
Homonymy: The word with different meanings accidentally, such as bear as an
animal and verb, or bank as a river or financial organization.
⭐ USE OF MICRO SEMANTICS AND
LEXICAL SEMANTICS IN SEMANTIC
ROLE LABELLING
Both Micro Semantics and Lexical Semantics help in understanding the accurate
meaning and Context behind words.
Semantic Role Labeling is the process of assigning roles to words in a sentence
based on their meaning. These two tasks are interconnected, as Lexical Semantics
can be used to help with Semantic Role Labeling.
For example, the words “door” and “close” can be used in different ways. In the
sentence “The door is closed,” the word “door” is the patient, or object, of the verb

-- 31 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	32/65
“close.” In the sentence “George closed the door,” the word “George” is the agent, or
subject, of the verb “close.”
Lexical Semantics can help with Semantic Role Labeling by providing information
about the meaning of words. For example, the word “door” is typically associated
with the concept of a doorway, which is a physical opening in a wall. This information
can be used to help determine the role of the word “door” in a sentence.
In addition, Lexical Semantics can be used to identify relationships between words.
For example, the words “door” and “close” are semantically related, as they are both
related to the concept of a doorway. This information can be used to help determine
the role of the word “door” in a sentence.
The same verb “close” can also be connected to another noun, such as “eyes.” In
this case, a search engine can analyze the co-occurrence of “close” with “door” and
“eye” using a co-occurring matrix. “Closing eyes” and “Closing doors” represent
different contexts, even though the word “close” is relevant to both. Generating word
vectors and context vectors is valuable for tasks like next-word prediction, query
prediction, and refining search queries.
A search engine can adjust its confidence score for relevance based on the
semantic role labels assigned to words and the lexical-semantic relationships
between them in a text.
Here is a simple explanation of how Micro Level Semantics can help with Semantic
Role Labeling:
Micro Semantics and Lexical Semantics can help to identify the
meaning of words.
The meaning of words can be used to determine the role of a word
in a sentence.
For example, the word “door” can be used as a patient or an agent,
depending on the context.
Semantics can also help to identify relationships between words.
These relationships can be used to determine the role of a word in a
sentence.
For example, the words “door” and “close” are semantically related,
as they are both related to the concept of a doorway.

-- 32 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	33/65
⭐ STEPS TO USE
MICROSEMANTICS AND USING A
LARGE LANGUAGE MODEL TO
IMPROVE CONTEXTUAL COVERAGE
TO RANK HIGH?
Before diving into the methodologies and basic concepts let us show you some
examples of results that have been driven due to the procedures of semantic SEO.
Last 6 Months GSC Data for a9-play.com
Last 12 Months Growth Data for upperkey.com
Here we are going to create a fresh content draft and we are going to break down
the exact implementations of micro semantics in the creation of the draft.
In this case we are trying to rank a website whose Source Context: Handmade
Lifestyle Products.

-- 33 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	34/65
The Central Topic in this Case is Aromatherapy.
First we set out to create a Topical Map that covers the Topic Entirely:
Here is an example of a Topical Map for a Particular Entity. Although in this article
we won’t be going over the specific steps for building a topical map, but basically a
topical map consists of a hierarchical list of topics and subtopics and is used to
establish a topical authority on a particular subject.

-- 34 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	35/65
Each Subject under the Topical Map defines the Macro Context of the specific
subject.
In this article we would try to define the content brief for the Macro Context :
Aromatherapy Benefits
Each contextual Brief contains 4 sections, The Contextual Vector(SubTopics),
Headings Levels, Article Methodology and Query Terms.
For each content brief we find out the top two ranking competitors and find out the
ranking terms for the exact webpage:

-- 35 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	36/65
⭐ STEP 1: DEFINING THE QUERY
TERMS (QUERY NETWORK)
In order to make the process easier use a Large Language Model like ChatGPT to
input all of the ranking terms of the top ranking competitor Websites.

-- 36 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	37/65
Then we try to verbalize them by Asking ChatGPT to extract all the relevant entities
and questions that contextually cover the above query list.
The Desired Response is Obtained Below:

-- 37 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	38/65

-- 38 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	39/65
As you can see the Relevant Entities and the Verbalized Questions have been
outputed by ChatGPT.
The same process is repeated for the other competitor. At the end you get a
complete list of Questions and Entities that can completely cover or are related to
the Topic : Aromatherapy Benefits.
All these queries can be incorporated in the Query Column for further Usage.
⭐ STEP 2: TURNING QUERIES INTO
HEADING
Now that we have a complete set of Unique Queries that completely define all the
relevant entities for the topic: Aromatherapy Benefits, its now time to write the Article
Outline.
In order to write the Headings we must understand the following terms:

-- 39 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	40/65
Entity: The central concept or topic of the heading.
Attribute: A Property that defines the entity in a specific context. Eg: Height, Size,
Width, Cost etc.
Value: Value represents the meaning of the text.
While Turning the Queries into Headings two things can be kep in mind:
 . Group Similar Questions and  nd out the Representative Query and
the Variations
Eg: Word 1 + Aromatherapy + Word 2 + Benefits + Word 3
Word 1 + Benefits + Word 2 + Aromatherapy + Word 3
This is a query template where Aromatherapy and Benefits are the main context
words. Any query that only consist of these two terms is a representative query.
Eg: What are the benefits of Aromatherapy.
Word 1, Word 2 and Word 3 are variation terms that changes original query and
defines in different micro contexts (MicroSemantics).
For Eg:
Here frankincense, lemongrass, vanilla, are different essential oils extracts
and is more closely related to the word benefits and hence changes the query
meaning in the context of the specific essential oil.
Identifying all of the Word variation and hence the contextual variations of a
queries is important to effectively write unique headings that will cover the

-- 40 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	41/65
entire query network.
 . Write Down the Headings in a Logical Hiearchy that completely
covers the Query Network
Here two things should be kept in mind:
The Headings must be relevant to the source context , here
Aromatherapy Bene ts.
The Headings must cover the query network.
The Headings must be written in a logical order to maintain the
contextual  ow.

-- 41 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	42/65
Accordingly the headings are written. Notice How each of the Entities are Defined in
the list format.
⭐STEP 3: DEFINING THE ARTICLE
METHODOLOGY
Defining the Headings of an Article along with the appropriate Heading level is just
half way in the journey to creating a content brief. The real contextual coverage is
achieved by defining the contextual structure or in this case the article methodology
(for writers).
In the article methodology portion we try to define the main headings of the article in
different relevant micro context using the lexical semantics.
Let us understand this in a few examples:
While writing the article methodology for the 13 Health Benefits of Aromatherapy
heading we went on to define Aromatherapy and then cover the various physical and

-- 42 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	43/65
psychological benefits. However in the later section we mentioned the authors to
also the common diseases of Aromatherapy. Here diseases is used in a different
micro context to benefit but still relevant to the overall topic, as knowing the
overall benefits also requires the knowledge of the potential diseases that it
can cure.
Also we have used another context i.e “Common side effects of Aromatherapy”, side
effect being a antonym variation of the term “benefits” but still contextually relevant
to the overall subject.
Hence one can understand the application of both micro contexts (microsematics)
and lexical variations (lexical semantics) in ensuring a contextual coverage for a
given topic.
Let us take another example.
Under the Benefits of Aromatherapy we have the H2 Heading, called Enhances
Immunity. Again we use lexical semantics to define this heading in different context.
One of them being defining the antimicrobial properties of certain essential oils,
antimicrobe being a hyponym of immunity. Similarly the context of aromatherapy
affecting white blood cell generation is another example for the use of using a
hyponym variation in the same context.
In the last heading, we try to cover a body immunity in a different context by using
the term vulnerabilities, being an antonym variations.
These small changes in the context of the writing while staying relevant to the
overall macro context of the heading helps in improving the relevancy of the article
passages to the overall macro context.
⭐ USING MICRO CONTEXT IN
SUPPLEMENTARY CONTEXT

-- 43 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	44/65
Each Content Brief in a Topical Map contains a Main Content and a Supplementary
Content along with a border question.
In the Supplementary section of the Content we used a Micro Context: Side Effects
of Aromatherapy which is a seperate micro context although still remaining
contextually relevant to the main topic.
One can link this section to a relevant article about “Side Effects of Aromatherapy”
and Vice Versa. Thus the use of micro semantics in the Supplementary content
helps in effective interlinking thus deepening the link coverage of the overall topical
map.
In conclusion, exploring the realm of micro and lexical semantics and harnessing the
power of large language models has proven to be a game-changer when it comes to
enhancing document relevancy for search engine optimization (SEO). The synergy
between these two areas opens up new possibilities for understanding and
leveraging the intricacies of language in order to optimize content for better visibility
and user engagement.
⭐ FINAL THOUGHTS

-- 44 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	45/65
Micro semantics delves into the fine-grained analysis of individual word meanings,
encompassing aspects such as word senses, synonymy, antonymy, and semantic
relationships. By understanding the subtle nuances and context-dependent nature of
words, we can craft content that aligns more precisely with user intent. This enables
us to optimize on-page elements, such as headings, meta tags, and content
structure, with a focus on relevant keywords and their semantic variations.
Furthermore, lexical semantics explores the broader network of word meanings and
their interconnections within a language. Building upon the foundation of micro
semantics, it allows us to dive deeper into the semantic relationships between
words, such as hyponymy, meronymy, and troponymy. By incorporating this
knowledge, we can develop content strategies that not only incorporate primary
keywords but also encompass related terms and concepts that enhance the overall
topical relevance and authority of the document.
⭐ UNDERSTANDING ENTITIES AND
ENTITY ORIENTED SEARCH AND
ITS SIGNIFICANCE IN ECOMMERCE
SEO
Entity-oriented Search Understanding is an important part of Search Engine
Understanding or Search Engine Communication. These terms might be new to the
traditional understanding of SEO, but the process of understanding a search engine
is a daily routine for any SEO to analyze the search engines’ decision trees that
create their result pages.
Entity-oriented Search Understanding is the understanding of a SERP Instance
based on entities, their types, attributes, and connections to each other. A search
engine might choose only certain types of pages that include a type of entity along
with particular attributes and phrase variations for these attributes with the most
related facts. Or, a search engine might filter the results according to the sources’ N-
Grams for certain entities. If they don’t have enough numbers, or if they don’t have
the relevant facts and external references for these entities, they might be
outranked.

-- 45 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	46/65
⭐ TOPICAL AUTHORITY AND
ENTITY SEARCH
Topical Authority overall is calculated by the relevance of a information source to a
topic by proposing a link value to a search engine by satisfying users via the queries
that seek answers for certain entities with certain context.
⭐STEPS TO IMPROVE TOPICAL
AUTHORITY BY ENTITY ORIENTED SEARCH
UNDERSTANDING
To improve the topical authority, a web page must cover all the related details to a
topic , with a certain context, query and intent template. In this case its the
information gap that matters and not the keyword gap.
The following methodology can be followed:
 . Compare the entities within different web pages.
 . Compare the context and content angle for these entities.
 . Compare the facts, prepositions, and semantic role labels for these
entities.
 . Compare the questions on the competing web pages.
 . Compare the Site-wide and Page-level N-Grams of the web pages.
 . Compare the web page layout of the web pages (web page design
can affect the meaning and context of the entities within the web
page)
 . Compare the anchor texts from outgoing, and incoming links for
these web pages.
 . Take all the attributes of the speci c entity, and give them an order
based on the relatedness of the attribute for the source, and the
popularity of the attribute to generate better questions.
 . Use a clear sentence structure for all the prepositions.

-- 46 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	47/65
  . Do not dilute the context of the web page with irrelevant opinions,
or analogies, and other types of entities.
  . Process the same entity or same entities from the same type with
the same context from start to end.
⭐ HOW TO PRACTICALLY
IMPROVE TOPICAL AUTHORITY
FOR ECOMMERCE SITES USING
ENTITY ORIENTED SEARCH
UNDERSTANDING?
To use topical authority for e-commerce sites with entity-oriented search
understanding, a website should create content that is rich in factual information
about the products and services that they sell. This content should also be
structured in a way that makes it easy for search engines to understand the entities
that are mentioned.
For example, an e-commerce site that sells electronic bikes could create content
about different types of electronic bikes, their features, their benefits, and their uses.
This content could also include information about the history of electronic bikes, the
different brands of electronic bikes, and the different ways to maintain electronic
bikes.
It’s essential to consider different types of queries, including possible search intents,
correlated queries, sequential queries, and entity-seeking queries. By incorporating
these query themes into the content, the e-commerce site can cover various
knowledge domains and provide a comprehensive and relevant user experience.
In summary, to leverage topical authority for e-commerce sites, it’s crucial to offer
detailed information about products and related aspects, while ensuring the content
satisfies different search intents and addresses a wide range of user queries.
In Summary, the following methodology can be followed
Understand the dimensions of the product that you sell.
Find all the relevant entities for the product, including its brand,
material, inventor, alternatives, and similar.

-- 47 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	48/65
Generate the best proper questions for these dimensions of the
product, brands, related entities, and their attributes.
Give the questions a proper order based on the web page layout,
and web page purpose.
Match the query and answer format with NLP convenient sentence
structures.
Use information redundancy, and unique value opportunities for the
products.
Connect all the entities based on their ontology for commercial
purposes.
Understand the popularity of entity attributes and the relatedness of
entity attributes.
Try to use entity relations, relation types, semantic role labeling, and
entity resolution from the eyes of the search engines.
Use phrase templates, and phrase pattern taxonomies, and create a
prominence hierarchy without diluting the context.
Search Engines’ perspectives on a topic and the central context of
the topical map should align with each other to make search
engines understand the website easier, and faster.
⭐ HOW TO UNDERSTAND WHICH
ENTITY ATTRIBUTES ARE MORE
PROMINENT OVER THE OTHER?
To determine which attributes of an entity are more important for a given context, we
consider the prominence, relatedness, and popularity of those attributes.
Prominence refers to how often an attribute is mentioned in a
particular context.
Relatedness refers to how closely an attribute is related to a
particular topic.
Popularity refers to how often an attribute is searched for.

-- 48 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	49/65
To understand which entity attributes are more important for a context, an entity-
oriented search analyst should consider the following factors:
The source’s context: What is the source about? What are the most
common attributes of entities of the same type in this context?
The source’s purpose: What is the source trying to achieve? What
information does the source need to provide to achieve its purpose?
The user’s intent: What is the user trying to  nd out? What
information does the user need to answer their question?
Once the analyst has considered these factors, they can identify the most important
entity attributes for a particular context. These attributes can then be used to
generate questions, answer questions, and create content that is relevant to the
user’s needs.
For example, in a source about Formula One, important attributes of a car would
include the driver, constructor, engine, top speed, and weight. However, in a
historical context, attributes like the inception of cars or the inventors would be more
significant. The most common attributes among entities of the same type in a given
source are typically the most essential.
To identify attributes that matter and generate relevant questions, search analysts
consider the relatedness and prominence of the attributes. For instance, in a
Formula One-focused source, attributes like the car’s driver and race circuits would
be more prominent than attributes such as lap count or circuit viewer capacity.
Certain attributes may also have higher popularity, and understanding search-
demand trends and changes can help improve the ranking of documents,
particularly in news-focused contexts.
⭐ HOW TO STRENGTHEN
CONTEXTUAL SIGNALS AND
RELEVANCE BY CONNECTING
ENTITIES
To strengthen contextual signals and relevance, we can connect entities to each
other using ontology and knowledge graphs. By forming triples of related entities, we

-- 49 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	50/65
create connections that help build a knowledge graph. This graph includes factual
information and improves the relevance of content for specific queries.
Semantic annotations, which are labels assigned to documents based on named
entity recognition, play a role in connecting entities within a context. These
annotations indicate the weighted attributes of an entity as a subject or an object.
The switches between entities and attributes change the semantic annotations,
creating internal links with definitive relevance.
For example, consider the entities
Germany,
France,
England,
Turkey, and the
United States,
all of which are countries. These entities share common attributes related to their
status as countries.
By understanding the attribute hierarchy or semantic dependency tree, we can
determine the priority of attributes in defining an entity. If a web page discusses
attributes like currency, banks, and finance, a search engine will recognize the topic
as international finance and retrieve relevant information and questions to satisfy
user needs. Conversely, if the page includes terms like education, schools, and
classrooms, the context will shift to education in these countries.
Creating entity connections involves using mutual attributes to establish relevance
within a specific context, enabling ranking signal consolidation. For example,
Germany can be connected to Turkey based on currency exchange rates or shared
population features. Multiple connections and variations exist between these
entities, such as Turkey’s connection to England for external debts or Germany’s
connection to the United States for the dollar index. These connections and their
permutations define the relevance and factuality of a web page in relation to
user queries.
⭐ HOW TO SPECIFY CONTEXT AND
DEFINE ENTITIES ACCURATELY

-- 50 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	51/65
An Entity is a real word object. However its semantic definition can change based on
the context. For example, a tree can be a plant in the context of city planning, but it
can also be a mythological creature or a material for bridges.
To improve the precision and factual information redundancy of a source, entities
should be defined with their functions, importance, usage, benefits, and effects for
the specific knowledge domain.
If an entity’s differences, unique and similar sides, alternatives, and advantages are
absent within the web page, or if they are not being able to select easily, the web
page might dilute its context, relevance, and informational value for the search
engine’s re-ranking, and initial ranking algorithms.
Question answering is an important part of the entity-oriented search. Google can
choose multiple possible answers for a specific question. A contextual domain can
be determined by a single qualifier, such as a year, place, or demographic group. In

-- 51 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	52/65
this context, the search engine can choose the best web page with the best answer
coverage.
⭐ AN EXAMPLE OF ENTITY
ORIENTED SEARCH TO BOOST
ECOMMERCE WEBSITE SEO?
To explain the benefits of Entity Oriented Search can be understood using the
following example of an Ecommerce Website and how they implemented it
successfully to boost their organic reach.
In this case we are reviewing the following website: https://www.bkmkitap.com/
This is a Books Aggregator in Turkey. Although they had good branded search traffic
their organic traffic was failing.
The site had a tremendous amount of technical SEO issues:

-- 52 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	53/65
Overall here are the list of Technical and Pagespeed related problems:
Half of the website URLs don’t exist in the sitemaps
There are millions of cannibalized URLs.
There are thousands of duplicate product URLs.
More than 30000 internal 404 pages. (From full data)
Blocked URLs within the Sitemap.
Hundreds of 5XX errors daily
Submitted URLs with Noindex
Redirection Errors
Submitted but 404 URLs
Indexed but blocked URLs (Tens of thousands)
Indexed content without actual content
More than half a million robots.txt excluded pages.
Nearly 100,000 URLs are crawled and not indexed.
Nearly 53.224 pages are currently discovered and not crawled.
Over 600,000 duplicate with canonical and submitted URL is not
selected as canonical.
The site has millions of URLs, but even a single URL doesn’t pass the
Core Web Vitals.

-- 53 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	54/65
Most of the website has poor scores on the PSI.
Thousands of AMP Related issues such as referenced AMP URL is not
an AMP, or custom javascript, etc.
Thousands of structured data errors, and missing information for the
related products.
Hundreds of thousands of products without stock information, or
stock existence. These last two subjects also affect the search
engine’s con dence to rank the speci ed e-commerce page, since
the stock information, brand, reviews, and prices are not clear
enough for the evaluation algorithms.
With Technical SEO, Page Performance fixing out of option, the website had to
focus on entity SEO and Semantics. To implement Entity Oriented SEO, the SEO
analyst have to understand the context of the source and then using the context to
improve the Site’s Ranking.
⭐ STEP BY STEP METHODOLOLGY
TO IMPROVE THE ECOMMERCE
CATEGORY AND PRODUCT
RELEVANCY
For BKMKitap, the overall context of the website was “Book
Ecommerce”.
To cover both informational and e-commerce-related contextual
domains, the webmasters identi ed the most relevant attributes for
both angles.
The webmaster used ontology and taxonomy to connect the e-
commerce and informational domains.
When it comes to books, as a product, it has “size, material, author,
ISBN Number, price, page count, an image or visual for cover, editor.”
When it comes to books as a literature value, it has “an effect on the
subject that it processes, a topic, unique sides, differences, authors,
characters, genre, era, style, school and more.”

-- 54 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	55/65
When an SEO understands these two sides of the entity as a product
and artwork, the next step is search intent understanding.
Search intent understanding is the process of understanding what a
user is looking for when they perform a search.
In the context of search intent understanding, an SEO should know
that a web page should have a dominant context.
In other words, a web page can’t be an e-commerce web page and
an informational web page at the same time at the same level.
One of these options dominates the other one for the speci c web
page, and the anchor texts or the web page layout should align with
this option.
In the BKMKitap.com SEO Case Study, the author created two
different web page types, one for the books’ e-commerce side, and
the other one for the books’ literature value along with their authors.
An e-commerce web page can have an informational content piece,
but if this content is about “buying the book,” and “using the
product” along with “refund and delivery policies and conditions,” it
would improve the search intent coverage for the related web page.
HOW DID THEY IMPROVE THE
CONTEXTUAL RELEVANCE AND
TOPICAL AUTHORITY WITH
INFORMATIONAL CONTENT AND
COMMERCIAL INTENT?
Improving the Contextual Relevance and Topical Authority of a Website, an SEO
should cover the informational, definitional, and factual hinterland of the topics for
the specified products.
For a book Ecommerce, this would mean creating separate webpages based on the
following topics:
Books Genres
Books from Different Geographies

-- 55 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	56/65
Authors from Eras
Authors from Geographies
Authors from Cultures
Authors from Ideologies
Individual Author Biographies
Author and Book Connections
Author’s Similarities, Differences, Thoughts, Childhood, and more.
⭐HERE’S A SCREENSHOT OF A
SEMANTICALLY ENGINEERED PAGE
CONTENT
Here are some additional details about each of the strategies mentioned above:
Creating different web page groups for different entities: This allows the SEO to
focus on specific topics and provide more in-depth information about each one. This
can help to improve the ranking of the website in search results for those specific
topics.
Generating questions: This can help to improve the user experience by making it
easier for users to find the information they are looking for. It can also help to
improve the ranking of the website in search results by making it more likely that
users will click on the website’s links.
Creating context-sharpening entity-oriented search documents: This involves
creating documents that provide information about different entities and how they
are related to each other. This can help users to understand the relationships
between different entities and to find the information they are looking for more easily.
Connecting all the relevant facts to each other: This involves creating links
between different pieces of information on the website. This can help users to find
the information they are looking for more easily and can also improve the ranking of
the website in search results.
Here’s an example of a Semantically Engineered page Content for BKMKitap.com

-- 56 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	57/65
The Topic is about e-YDS an Academic Personnel and Graduate Education
Examination. The following headings were covered:
What Is ALES?
What Does ALES Do?
How to Apply for ALES?
Who Can Enter ALES?
How Many Minutes Is ALES Exam?
Which Courses Are Available in ALES?
What are the Course Topics in ALES?

-- 57 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	58/65
How is ALES Score Calculated?
In ALES, Does Wrong Lead to the Right?
How Many Nets Should Be Made to Calculate ALES Score?
What are ALES Score Types?
How Many Times Will ALES Be Performed in 2023?
When is the 2023 ALES Exam?
When will the 2023 ALES Exam Results Be Announced?
How Long Is the Validity Period of the ALES Score?
How to Study for ALES?
One can notice the Question Answer Format used to write the content. Also the
different types of context and content angles used to write the article.
Here is the result:
HERE IS HOW THEY USED SEMANTIC
ENGINEERING FOR A PRODUCT CATEGORY
PAGE

-- 58 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	59/65
This is a Category Page for Harry Potter Books

-- 59 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	60/65
Notice how they added more content at the buttom of the page product page to
improve the contextual relevance.
Now here is the result
OVERALL WEBSITE ORGANIC
PERFORMANCE OVER TIME

-- 60 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	61/65
⭐ SO WHAT DID THE ENTITY
ORIENTED SEARCH OPTIMIZATION
REALLY DO?
Focusing on more educational topics, and contexts.
Covering educational books, lectures, research, and researchers.
Focusing on university materials, professor, and their work.
Focusing on exams from different educational layers and levels
along with their books.
Connecting the educational need materials to the stationary e-
commerce pages.
Extending the contextual coverage to the scienti c research and
study topics.
Extending the contextual coverage to the school lectures, their
topics, and necessary books.
Focusing on the school ages, and school-related children’s books.
Extending the coverage to the student requires, and student
lifestyle.

-- 61 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	62/65
Increasing the coverage for the internal links, and anchor text for a
better-directed graph over all of these context domains.
⭐ FINAL THOUGHTS ON ENTITY
ORIENTED ECOMMERCE SEO
Entity-oriented search understanding (EOSU) is a technique that
uses entities to understand the meaning of search queries and to
create content that is relevant to those queries.
EOSU is not as popular as AI text generation, but it is becoming
increasingly important as search engines become more
sophisticated in their ability to understand natural language.
EOSU can be used to improve the ranking of websites in search
results by creating content that is more relevant to search queries.
To implement EOSU, SEOs should:
Create hyper-structured data, which is data that is organized in a
way that makes it easy for search engines to understand.
Perform experiments with different sentence structures to extract
different information from text.
Use A/B testing to compare the performance of different EOSU
strategies.
EOSU is a powerful technique that can be used to improve the ranking of websites
in search results. By understanding entities and their relationships, SEOs can create
content that is more relevant to search queries. This can lead to more traffic and
more conversions.
 PREVIOUS ARTICLE
HOW TO MAKE YOUR SEARCH
ENGINE RANKINGS CONVERT INTO
SALES AND LEADS FOR BUSINESS
NEXT ARTICLE 
HOW TO PERFORM CONTENT GAP
ANALYSIS AND TOPIC CLUSTER
OPTIMIZATION

-- 62 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	63/65
IMPORTANT
RESOURCES
Privacy Policy
HTML
Sitemap
XML Sitemap
WHITEPAPER
Company
Deck
Case Studies
AI
Implementations
SEO
AI SEO
Blueprint
Algorithm
Audit Sample
AI-SEO Video
SEO
KNOWLEDGE
BASE
New Robot’s
Tag
Linked
Domains
Social Media
Polling
Image Geo-
tagging
OUR
EXCLUSIVE
SERVICES
Digital
Marketing
Advanced
Link Building
Advanced
SEO
AI Based
SEO
Paid
Marketing
Business
Intelligence
Fully
Managed
SEO
One Time
SEO
Conversion
Funnel
Social Media
(SMM)
Penalty
Recovery
Local SEO
(GMB)
Reseller SEO
Content
SEO SERVICES
BY INDUSTRY
iGaming &
Casino SEO
SEO for
Financial
Industry
SEO for legal
services
SEO for
weight loss
SEO for
Travel
SEO for real
estate
SEO for
ecommerce
SEO for
Forex
SEO for
Crypto
SEO for
Pharma
SEO for CBD
SEO for
Health care
SEO for
Dating
SEO for Pets
SEO for
INDIAN STATE
BASED SEO
SERVICES
SEO Service
India
SEO Services
Chennai
SEO Services
Delhi
SEO Services
Gurgaon
SEO Services
Hyderabad
SEO Services
Kolkata
SEO Services
Lucknow
SEO Services
Mumbai
SEO Services
Noida
SEO Services
Pune
SEO Services
Bangalore
SEO Services
Gujarat
SEO
Ahmedabad
SEO Services
ADDRESS
India Office 1:
ThatWare
LLP, Arunava
Sarani, Sukriti
Apartment –
G Floor, North
Ghosh Para,
Bally, Howrah
– 711227
Nearest
Landmark:-
Bally Halt
Utsav Lodge
India Office 2:
ThatWare
LLP, DC Neogi
Road, Srijoni
Apartment –
G Floor, North
Ghosh Para,
Bally, Howrah
– 711227
+91-
7044080698

info@thatware.co
Dubai
ADDRESS :

-- 63 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	64/65
Topic
Clustering
Google Title
Re-write
Google Story
Author
Schema
FAQ Schema
XML Audit
Edge SEO
Google
Discover
Favicon
Optimization
Content
Syndication
Goals in GA
Domain Age
Multilingual
SEO
Share of Voice
URL
INSPECTION
API
Sitewide Links
Pogo Sticking
Crawler
Directives
Geographic
Modi ers
5xx Status
Codes
CORA SEO
Sample
Download
CORA report
Writing
Content
Proofreading
SEO
Consultation
Web
Development
Web
Designing
Chatbot
Development
UI
Development
UX
Development
App
Development
Software
Development
Bug Testing
Website
Maintenance
AWS
Management
Tech
Consultation
Graphic
Designing
Competitor
Research
Market
Research
NLP and AI
ORM
Work Flow’s
Extensive
SEO
Standard
SEO
AI-Driven
SEO
Backlink
Cyber
Security
Media Links
Stevie Awards
Hindustan
Times
Economic
Times
Times Of
India
The CEO
Forbes
Inc 42
Live Mint
Pioneer
Business
Wire
Verifications
Surat
SEO Services
Tamil Nadu
Country
Based SEO
Services
SEO Services
Australia
SEO Services
Canada
SEO Services
Europe
SEO Services
Israel
SEO Services
NZ
SEO Services
Africa
SEO Services
UAE
SEO Services
UK
SEO Services
USA
DIY SEO
Practices
DIY on-page
SEO
DIY off-page
SEO
DIY GMB
Guide
DIY Tech
SEO
Our Design
Partner
MyDesigns
Our AI-SEO
Tool
WebTool
Al Asayel St –
Al Furjan –
Dubai –
United Arab
Emirates
GMZ-F01-
104, Danube
Gemz
UK ADDRESS
:
71-75 Shelton
Street Covent
Garden
London
WC2H 9JQ
ENGLAND
Our AI-SEO
technology is
Patent
protected
with Patent
Filing
Number:
202131021713
Thatware LLP
is also
protected
under
Intellectual
property: CBR
IP 6979

-- 64 of 65 --

12/12/2023, 09:56 	Micro Semantics In-depth SEO Guide: Step by Step Analysis
https://thatware.co/micro-semantics-indepth-seo-guide/ 	65/65
Technique’s
ASO
WorkFlow
       	COPYRIGHT 2017 - 2023 @ THATWARE
LLP & TUHIN BANIK PROPRIETOR (Reg
no: AAQ-0064, GSTIN: 19CGJPB6316H1ZF,
MSME: UDYAM-WB-08-000602, TAX ID:
CGJPB6316H & AAOFT7728G)

-- 65 of 65 --
